what i'm trying to do is give people a
whack on the head and go stop thinking
and start doing
the the real brilliance behind
entrepreneurs today is not how good
their ideas are it's how clever they can
be about figuring out ways to test those
ideas to try them to as i say collide
them with reality
that is what separates an entrepreneur
from a dreamer
[Music]
hey everybody welcome to another episode
of impact theory i am here with an
extraordinary entrepreneur mark randolph
the co-founder of a little company you
may have heard of called netflix
mark welcome to the show
well thanks very much pleasure to be
here dude i'm excited to talk to you um
as i was saying before we started
rolling i am not a born entrepreneur so
talking to somebody like you that has
just from the time they were a kid doing
candy arbitrage and had the instincts of
an entrepreneur it's so exciting that
you've both written the book and now
doing the podcast that will never work
both under the same title um
is really cool and i'm super glad that
you're giving people a glimpse into the
way you think
and where i want to start is with the
idea that nobody knows anything why did
people tell you that netflix was never
going to work
so uh
first of all it's certainly not an
uncommon thing because everyone's had
that experience where you kind of wake
up with the brilliant idea and then you
rush downstairs and tell your best
friend or your spouse and run into the
office and they all say the same thing
which is that will never work
and i heard it thousands of times you
know especially when i was pitching the
idea that eventually became netflix i
heard it from investors from potential
employees heard it from my wife
but
there's a reason why everyone says that
will never work and it's because it's
impossible
to tell a good idea from a bad idea
uh it's probably the most important
thing i've learned in my 40 years as an
entrepreneur is that you can't tell
by thinking about it that there's really
only a way to figure out whether it's a
good idea or a bad idea
and that is to do it
and the sooner you recognize that you
have no clue as soon as you realize that
the experts you're talking to have no
clue as soon as you realize that
everybody has no idea if it's a good
idea or a bad idea
the better off you are
yeah see that to me is very interesting
one thing that i'm always telling my
team is action cures all so you can try
and think your way to a solution but the
reality is
even just trying to overcome the anxiety
of is this going to work or is it not go
take action i'm not sure what to do next
go try something and in taking the
action you begin to get the data you
need
well you were saying you're not not a
born entrepreneur but that certainly is
talking like one right because only
because i fell on my face so many times
so you give an example so your son is
teaching how to skateboard like now no
no no this was wild this is years ago
how many years though
oh my son learning how to skateboard you
you were talking about dropping in oh
gosh me sure that yeah that don't remind
me that's a very painful part of my uh
part of my past no it's true my this was
i don't know maybe five years ago six
years ago because my son he's pretty
passionate about it i mean passionate
enough that we
built a huge half pipe in the in the
backyard
and of course you want to do things with
your kids
and so i wanted to learn how to
skateboard and then one of those
fundamental things you learn in
skateboarding is that there's that
act called dropping in
where you're standing on the edge of the
half pipe and you've got to drop forward
and roll down that slope
but it's something that if you hesitate
if you lean back if you hedge your bets
you are guaranteed to end up in your ass
and the only only way to do it is to
fully commit to lean forward to put all
your weight in that front foot and down
you go
yeah that to me is one of the most apt
descriptions of what being an
entrepreneur is like and
one when you said that you were taking
up skateboarding i think you would have
been in your 50s five years ago so
that's already very impressive um but
that you likened it to you know you're
going to be taking a risk as an
entrepreneur and obviously what you've
built is so incredible to take something
from an idea that everybody thought was
going to fail
all the way to something that's worth
hundreds of billions of dollars is
really quite extraordinary and that idea
of all right you're standing at the top
it does look like it's going to fail
even in your own mind you're thinking
this is going to fail and the only
answer is to lean so far out over your
board that it seems like you're going to
crash and burn on your face but what did
your son tell you about leaning too far
forward
oh i think he said that no one ever
leans too far forward that it's
impossible to lean too far forward that
whatever your mind is saying this is too
far forward you're still probably too
far backwards in other words
don't worry about it go for it commit
yeah that is so i've dropped in exactly
three times in my life and so i know
what it's like to stand at the top of
that ramp and of course that's exactly
what you do you try to hedge your bet
it's like you feel like you're going to
fall on your face it is the weirdest
feeling ever so
as you were going down the path of
starting netflix and how do you make
sense of
all of the trying so you've committed
you're in but now how do you actually
turn that into a business because most
things fail and you talk a lot about how
you sort of systematize your way through
those early days
well you know it's true that you know
everyone says you know that will never
work and with netflix they go that'll
never work and the thing is they're
right
that the
idea you start with uh it didn't work
but it's a starting point but once you
start you actually begin learning what
might be the path to something that will
work i mean in netflix's case it took a
long time
but it doesn't mean that it's not a fun
process or that it's a it's a process in
itself you're actually moving forward
even though you know you haven't figured
it out yet i mean certainly when we
started netflix was not streaming video
it was dvd
it was mailing dvds and for those people
who might actually be familiar with the
netflix dvd service now it wasn't like
it is now it wasn't a subscription
service
it was due dates it was late fees i mean
it was
looking back on it ridiculous
and so of course it didn't work i mean
the occasional person would rent from us
but they wouldn't rent a second time it
was really hard to find someone who was
willing to do it more than once
but
we
learned we tried things we tested things
and each time you do a test
even though it may not solve the problem
completely it does illuminate the path
forward just a little bit at the very
least you've learned what doesn't work
and you can try a different direction
and little by little in our case it took
a year and a half
but eventually you finally if you're
lucky stumble onto the business model
that actually does work that's
repeatable and scalable
and where you can actually lo and behold
charge more for it than it costs you to
deliver the service
yeah that's one thing i hope that
budding entrepreneurs really take
seriously is that um and you talk a lot
about how the founding stories and the
tales of how a company ends up finding
its working business model they sound
neat but the reality is far more messy
than that and i've heard nobody's
encapsulated it quite as powerfully as
you which is most people will say hey
there's no bad ideas right let's get
them out on the table and you flip that
and yeah they're all bad ideas i mean
it's like but still get them out in the
table
just don't be searching for that one
perfect one because they're all gonna be
bad
see that strikes me as the secret to
entrepreneurship and as soon as i heard
you say it i was like wow i've never
allowed myself to go that far and just
say there are no good ideas but if you
operate from the framework of there are
no good ideas it's only execution
that feels like a key tenant to being an
entrepreneur is that something that you
because you now have the podcast you're
you're literally coaching in real time
entrepreneurs is that something you're
trying to convey to them
well of course i mean first of all the
reason i'm doing the podcast is because
there are patterns to this there's
classic mistakes people make and
certainly in 40 years as an entrepreneur
i have made my share of them but i've
also kind of learned some of the things
that do go into making an effective
company and in the podcast i'm working
with normal people i am not interviewing
successful business founders i'm
interviewing people who are in the midst
of it who are trying to turn their side
hustle into a real business or at least
take this crazy idea in their head
and make it real but the reason what's
so interesting is probably the single
most fundamental problem is what i call
the failure to start
you have this idea and you love this
idea it's an amazing idea and the more
you think about it the more amazing it
seems and of course
nestled safe and warm in your head of
course it's a good idea because there's
no reality there and there you're
allowed to envision getting a hundred
million downloads and imagine when
everyone's using it how powerful it's
going to be
but
of course the minute you actually try
and make it real all of a sudden wham
you bump into reality and all those
assumptions well they're wrong
and so what i'm trying to do is give
people a whack on the head and go stop
thinking and start doing
the the real brilliance behind
entrepreneurs today is not how good
their ideas are it's how clever they can
be about figuring out ways to test those
ideas to try them to as i say collide
them with reality
that is what separates an entrepreneur
from a dreamer
yeah well said one of the things that i
in hearing you talk about when you were
really focused on angel investing and
you realize you say you're bad at it
i'll just say it's essentially
impossible so i think everybody's
basically gonna be bad at it um
but you talked about how there was a
thing that you would look for in an
entrepreneur to find out if they were
sort of on the right track and that was
that sort of aggressive willingness to
go take that idea and batter it against
reality and see what happened
how do people do that like if somebody
has an idea right now
what would you advise them to do how do
they get out there
and start battle testing this
so the first thing is you have to make
sure that your idea is scaled to your
aspirations so if you're thinking
wouldn't it be incredible to invent a
portable cat scan device well you would
better have spent 30 years as a
physicist and in the medical field but
most people don't have ideas like that
they do have ideas that can be validated
easily and quickly and cheaply and i
don't mean
this over wrought
minimal viable product stuff i mean way
more minimal way less viable
and and i thought you're going to go the
other way
no god no it's again it's how quickly
and cheaply and easily can i collide the
idea but listen we're talking abstractly
so let me give you two specific examples
um
and i'll give you the quick one which is
the netflix example which is you know
reid hastings and i my co-founder were
brainstorming ideas for businesses we
were not movie buffs we had crazy ideas
we had ideas to do
personalized dog food and custom shampoo
and personal sporting goods all kinds of
crazy stuff and one of the ideas was
this idea to do video rental by mail
and at the time
video was on vhs cassette this is back
in 1996-97
so that idea was a non-starter
and one day in the car
reed mentioned he'd heard about this
technology called the dvd it's thin
light
and the idea popped into our heads maybe
we could make our video rental by mail
business work with a dvd we just mail it
so here's
where you separate the entrepreneur from
the dreamer
rather than going what a great idea and
rushing to the office and working on the
pitch deck or going home and writing the
business plan or
applying to be on shark tank or
something
we said let's immediately try and
collide this idea with some reality and
in our case we just turned the car
around and drove back down to town we
lived to buy a c dvd
but of course there weren't any it was
in test market so we said well close
enough we bought a music cd
and we just mailed it to reid's house
and we found out in 24 hours whether the
fundamental premise of our idea would
work we collided with reality within an
hour of having the idea
but let me give you one more example if
we have a moment here yeah please and
just because people are going oh that
works if you have a dv but it works for
anything
uh so i was working with a young woman
and she had an interesting idea
and her idea was to do peer-to-peer
clothing rental she's saying i have this
closet full of clothes i don't wear them
that often i'd kind of like to borrow my
friend's clothes i wonder if there was
an app
that lists all everyone's clothes and we
could borrow each other's clothes
and then she was talking to me about the
thing that aspiring entrepreneurs do how
do i raise money how do i find a
technical co-founder how do i build an
app blah blah blah dreaming
and i said whoa whoa stop
do you have a piece of paper and she
goes yes i go how about a sharpie she
goes i have that too and some tape and i
said write on a piece of paper
want to borrow my clothes question mark
knock
and tape it to your dorm room door
and you're going to find out
today
whether your idea has any merit because
if nobody knocks well you've learned
something right there but let's say they
do knock and they let them in you're
going to find out about taste and about
fit now let's say they do find something
they like and that fits then you're
going to find out a few days later how
you feel about your favorite blouse
coming back stained you're going to find
out about the cost of dry cleaning
you're going to find out so much and
you're going to do it with a sharpie and
paper and tape
and you're going to do this for as long
as it takes
by hand
to learn the fundamental premise which
is is there a there there
and once you've done that
then
it's easy to attract someone to help you
with the technical aspects it's easy to
raise money because then when someone
says what's your idea you're not saying
imagine if you will
you're saying look what i've discovered
look what i found out look what i know
and you can demonstrate your idea is a
good one and that's the trick
is you don't need to build an app you
don't need to start a business you don't
need to raise money
you just need to figure out a way to
quickly take your idea and collide it
with some reality
that strikes me as so self-evident as
being just great advice everybody that's
ever started a company should have
thought of that and tried that but
people don't like that is about as far
from what the average person does as
you're going to get why do you think
that is
you know i'm not sure
i think there's a couple things
the lamentable one is that there's this
glorification of entrepreneurship
which is that people think that what an
entrepreneur does is start businesses
and they pitch for money and they hire
people
i mean they think that's what you do and
so of course they believe that that is
the mechanism for starting a company
but i actually think the other reason is
there's something psychologically deep
seated in all of us which is this fear
of having something not work
and so
we want to do every single thing we
possibly can
to try and make sure we've taken our
best swing at it and
this is not a i mean
everyone has that issue i had that issue
you know back when i was saying that we
initially had these ideas that didn't
work and netflix wasn't working there
was no shortage of ideas the problem is
i was a perfectionist too
and i was designing these tests that
were works of art that would take weeks
to do because they'd have you know
custom photography and we'd have
arguments but everywhere to copy we'd
stress test the site and then three
weeks later you launch your test and it
fails
and you go you've got to better go a bit
a little bit faster you do a test in a
week and it fails and you go faster you
in two days then a day and then multiple
tests in a single day and things are
getting really crappy you have dead
links and you're crashing the site and
misspellings and all that stuff
but
here's the the punchline is it doesn't
make a difference
that no matter
how much you polish something
it was a bad idea it's still not going
to work
and if it's a good idea then even
something completely half-assed people
will immediately raise their hands
they'll shine the spotlight and you know
what to fix and so people go into this
the same way
they say i really have this idea and the
only way to know if it's going to work
is if i fully execute it
and they build the app and they raise
the money and then they find that it
doesn't work but it's now
12 months in and a million dollars later
um and they're stuck
man that that is such good advice that
advice is so good in fact that um when
my own team encountered your book and
you talk about that idea in the book we
immediately implemented that here at
impact here just because you really can
first of all different people in
different departments have ownership
right so the guy that creates the
landing pages his identity is tied up
and making that landing page beautiful
so he doesn't want you doing an ugly
test oh but you know tom come on look it
looks broken how can we do this
and
not realizing that the that's why i come
back to
man you've said a lot of brilliant
things dude i'm not trying to diminish
all the full range but
when you say there are no good ideas
that to me is so foundational it
actually orients people in the way that
they need to be oriented to figure
something out have you found like so if
you know you fall prey to this do you
have rules that you
live by or that you pass on to you know
young teams that maybe haven't
taken this in yet so that they don't get
trapped by that
yeah it's like any skill you have to
practice
and you have to practice um taking small
steps i'm certainly a professional risk
taker now i've been doing it for 40
years
uh but you listen you know
when i give us i do a lot of keynote
speaking now and i speak in front of big
audiences
and i still get nervous backstage
the difference is
one part of my brain is going mark you
are nervous i know you're nervous and
you're panicking you're terrified to go
out there but but remember the second
you get out there you know from previous
experience that you're going to feel
fine
and i can push through it
and the same thing goes when i test
something which is completely half-assed
i go oh god this is so bad and the
little voice goes mark you've done this
a million times you know it doesn't make
a difference that the speed getting it
out there fast is so much more important
and i do it so when i'm working with
young people when i'm coaching people on
the podcast it's it's really saying take
a small step
try something you know don't
don't gamble something which is hugely
consequential
take a small step you'll find out
directly that it's not going to make a
big difference if it doesn't work in
fact
boy you got me rolling here now so
you know that this little guy jeff bezos
you've probably heard of him he had been
once or twice
he has this wonderful thing
he talks about he calls them a one-way
doors and two-way doors
and he goes that
decisions are like one-way doors and
two-way doors that sometimes when you're
making a decision
you decide to do something and you walk
through the one-way door and it slams
shut and locks behind you you can't get
back it goes well before you go through
a one-way door you would better really
understand the step you're taking
he goes but most ideas are not one-way
doors most things are two-way doors that
you can step through look around and if
you don't like what you see you just
step right back
and that once you've recognized you've
trained your ability to know a one-way
door from a two-way door then man you
just blast through that door because you
know oh if i don't like what i see i can
step right back no harm no foul
and it's teaching people to see that
it's training them to have comfort doing
that and it's given them a little bit of
encouragement that
this is going to be fine
it's interesting to me that both you and
bezos talk about the need to test test
test test test like that there is no
crystal ball there is no such thing as
being like such a business genius that
you're just going to get it right and
that it is about that risk tolerance
it's about culturally building in a
willingness to move quickly to ascertain
whether it worked
that to me is really powerful how do you
get people to
quantify that so okay we ran 30 tests
and not just be running tests because
hey culturally we run tests like how do
you then make sense of what happens
i before i became a tech entrepreneur
i spent 15 years as a direct marketing
guy
junk mail you know mail direct mail
direct response television catalogs
magazine circulation
so
my entire training
was about testing
and i learned this really interesting
fundamental truth about testing is that
testing is fantastic for finding out
after the fact which thing did better
but
not very often does it tell you exactly
what it is you should test and in some
ways
knowing
that i can determine beyond a shadow of
a doubt which shade of blue performs
better
but there is a thousand shades of blue
and i what am i going to spend all my
time testing all of them and so i've
learned you've got to combine
instinct and intuition
with this ability to measure afterwards
that you're not just randomly fumbling
around
and that's really what i try and help
people do
is you need to understand what you're
trying to accomplish
and the ideas you come up with
have to have some
possible
bearing on that problem you're trying to
solve
i mean the classic one that most
ecommerce companies try and solve is the
whole landing page problem like you were
describing on your team
i mean you have to clearly say what
we're trying to test
is how do we get a higher percentage of
people to move from one page to another
but you have to go deeper than that you
go but wait a minute we wanted to move
for the next page and if they sign up i
want people who are going to stick
around not just randomly come through
there's a million dimensions so it's
this combination of defining in advance
what it is i'm trying to understand
coming up with hypotheses of what tests
might possibly get me there and then
being very very deliberate
about looking after the fact and go
how did we do
there was one test that you guys ran
that i think of as a one-way door i'll
be curious to think see if you think of
it the same way
that man i don't know how you guys had
the cojones to do it so
um walk people through when you guys
decided to
shut off the dvd sales portion and let
people know how much of your revenue
that made up at the time that you did
that yeah that's not a that wasn't a
test unfortunately
uh that was a commitment uh but going
back when we launched the company as i
mentioned before there wasn't a lot of
business model innovation you know we
had due dates we had late fees and as a
after thought
we said we've gone to all this trouble
to find copies of every single dvd
available at the time
so we may as well sell them too
and so when we launched netflix you
could rent dvds and you could buy dvds
and at the end of our first month in
business we had this great news
and this terrible news and the great
news was we had a hundred thousand
dollars in sales more or less so million
dollar plus run rate
fantastic outcome the bad news is that
98 of it
almost all that revenue came from
selling dvds
and this was bad
for
a few fundamental reasons the first one
was that
it was just a matter of time before we
had competition
there was that little company amazon
which back in 1998 only sold books
but even then it made no secret of the
fact that it was going to be the
everything store and we knew the next
category was going to be music and video
and we were could just see our margins
being dissolved
now
rental
had potential because it was defensible
had good margins the problem was no one
did it
but here was the real problem the
problem is that doing both of them at
the same time
was brutal
it was confusing to customers about what
netflix stood for our checkout process
was complicated because you had discs
you wanted to rent it's disks you wanted
to buy
the shipping and receiving like half the
inventory went out and stayed out and
half would go out and come back
and inventory management all of our
analytics were complicated i mean we
realized that
if we were going to get something right
we had to focus on one of these two
parts of the business
and that was a brutal decision because
if we had
focused on selling dvds we would have
had a great business for a while
until eventually we didn't
but if we bet everything on rental
that could potentially be a huge
business it's an eight billion dollar
category
but certainly from where we stood at the
time you could see no possible route to
getting there
but i think fundamentally as a risk
taker
we decided that it was way better to
take this long shot
at a great success
than to take this
pretty pure path
um to mediocrity and eventually going
out of business
and so
we in one single day without a test
just pulled the plug and focused
everything we had on getting rental to
work how do you think about the ability
to think through problems so obviously
we've already talked about action is
going to be way better than sitting
around thinking about it but something
like that you really do just have to
think through
do you think you're naturally gifted at
that or is that a process like hey
ask these three or four questions of
yourself whenever you're making a big
decision like do you have some sort of
framework like that
no i don't
i mean
i would never say i'm naturally gifted
at anything
because most of the stuff i try doesn't
work
but
there's a couple of things
that i'm good at and i've realized over
the years i'm good at
and
one of them is this ability to be
focused in the foreground and the
distance at the same time
you know i've used the analogy that it's
a little bit like riding my mountain
bike downhill
on a steep trail that you've got your
hands on the handlebars and you are
looking 10 feet in front of you
and that's the only thing that keeps you
and the bike together
but
occasionally you do have to look up and
see where you're going and make some
fundamental decisions what's the right
path and a startup is just like that and
it turns out i've got a pretty good
sense for that
which is that i could see
that this red sales thing was just not
going to go anywhere with this
confidence
and this ability to say i can focus on
the thing that's most important and if i
get that right
the rest of the problems
go away
but i spend a lot of time working with
people on focus
it's really kind of the entrepreneur's
secret weapon it's just the nature of
the beast that there's always a hundred
things on fire
and that if you try and put all the
fires out you're going to exhaust
yourself and really never accomplish
anything and that the real skill is
being able to pick the two or three
things that if you focus on them
the rest won't make the difference but
what makes that devilishly hard is those
two or three things aren't the ones that
are burning the hottest or that are
screaming the loudest
it's this intuitive sense that
that's the one i've got to fix
and then being able to block everything
else out um and focus on that yeah focus
i know was a big part of how you guys
were able to be successful the i think
the classic story you always tell with
that is what we just talked about which
is um you know cutting out the sales but
you also talk about the canada
situation problem forget the canada
principle um
walk people through that because that is
like you guys what you did is so
textbook for like just making the right
decisions at the right time and i get it
survivorship bias and all that but when
you look back you've got an uncanny
ability to say no no we made this
decision and this is why it worked and
maybe it wasn't self-evident at the time
but you really are able to with mess
included but sort of walk people through
it so what's the canada principle how
does somebody trying to accomplish
anything in life
bring that into their own being
yeah as you as i've said you know i'm a
focused guy um and i've always learned
that there if you spend 95 percent of
your time on five percent of your
problems that is usually going to be
more effective than spreading it equally
and a particular thing happened early at
netflix which is we were united states
only and for a long time
and there was always
this um
chorus of people who were saying we
should get into canada
we should be in business of canada it's
easy and it's right next door
it's a 10
bump
that is significant
and you know maybe they're right about
the 10 bump because you know canada is
approximately 10 the market size of the
united states
but where we were sure they were missing
the mark was on the it's easy part
because for one you have a border you
have to cross you have a different
currency
uh dvds at the time were persnickety in
that they had zones that didn't always
work in every country independently you
have a different language spoken in
parts of canada
but but fundamentally
what you realize is that if you take the
effort
that was required to get into canada if
you take the effort and the distraction
to get you ten percent
increase in sales
and took that effort and applied it to
your core business
how would you do
and the answer is you do way better than
a 10 bump
and you always have to make that call
and it comes up over and over and over
again and we use the canada principle as
a shorthand
to remind us to ask ourselves is the
effort that we're putting
into something new if we took that
effort and that distraction and that
manpower and applied it in the things
we're already doing
would that be a bigger bump
i mean it came up when for example we
were starting to really roll in the
united states you begin seeing
competitors spring up you see someone
doing dvd rental by mail in the uk
and in australia and in italy and the
temptation is
let's get over there and
put out that fire we'll stomp them right
out
and it takes some discipline to say
stick to the knitting the effort that
we're putting into making this company
strong to learning our processes to
figuring out how to be more efficient
when we eventually do
enter the uk and italy and australia
we'll have no problem even when they're
stronger even if there's more of them
there's a lot of sort of self-awareness
to you and the way that you approach
business you talked about you know what
you're good at you know you're not
you've got sort of business fundamentals
that you stay to and even if something
is sexy or exciting or the you know easy
10 bump you're you're able to stay
focused
in the book you go into a moment that i
was dude it's breathtaking so
um
reed ends up coming to you he's not
working actively in the business at the
time comes to you and says hey i don't
think you're in your strong suit anymore
i want to come in as ceo
that moment implodes 99.999
of business relationships and i'm
curious how did you
not and obviously then from you not
imploding
the world gets you know this absolute
behemoth but had you made a different
decision at that moment i mean not to
over dramatize but like the history of
the way that we consume media would have
changed
yes funny putting that much weight on it
it certainly was uh
had i known then
no it certainly was a it was a very very
intense
time
and
this was reasonably early at the company
and when we started the company together
you know reid was not active full-time i
mean he was my chairman he was my angel
investor but he was going to school
and i was running the company starting
and running the company
but um you know he was involved it was
great to have a sounding board and we
talked all the time
and so it wasn't unusual for him to stop
in um to the office on his way home in
the evening
and he stopped in one night and you know
knocks and basically says you know mark
we've got to talk
has anyone who's heard those words
before you know that this is not going
to
necessarily go too well and as you
pointed out reid was concerned he was
concerned about the business and more
specifically he was concerned about my
judgment
and these weren't
necessarily big things he was seeing
but he was seeing patterns that he was
concerned that as the company got bigger
as we moved faster would become problems
and
this was brutal
because reid and i have had this
incredibly powerful honest relationship
from the moment i've met him we have not
minced words at all there's been no
ulterior motives when we say things to
each other and so for him to say that
for someone i deeply respect and who is
so smart
i had to take seriously that maybe
he was right
uh and what was worse is i thought he
was firing me
he had more stock than i did
but
what i learned as we talked some more
was he was saying something very
different he was really saying that this
company would be stronger
if we ran it together
and he was proposing that he joined the
company full-time
that he'd come in as ceo that i'd move
over as president
and we'd do it together
and it was
it was a
hard
ego moment
because you know when you start a
company you have these dreams
and the dream
is that you can see yourself running
this successful company and now i kind
of realized there was actually two
dreams here there was the dream of
me running the company
and then there was the dream of the big
successful company
and
those were different and more
importantly the dream of the big
successful company wasn't just my dream
anymore it was the dream of my employees
it was the dream of my customers it was
the dream of my investors
and i had to really think
was i willing to compromise one dream
for the other
and and i can't say that i just went
okay so you know it was this was hard
you know there was a lot of wine drunk
um on the porch with my wife
as we kind of
worked through this
but fundamentally i realized you know
reid was right
that it was almost inarguable the
company would be stronger with the two
of us doing it together
and
certainly
seriously looking back on all the
decisions that i ever made
before after at netflix
that probably was the best decision i
ever made
because certainly in the years that
followed was the renaissance at netflix
almost all of the unbelievable things
that transformed the company came during
that period where reid and i were
running it together
and
certainly
looking at where reid has taken the
company since i left it is just
remarkable
so
i
look back at that and say
mark you you did good
and it's one of the things that i
counsel other entrepreneurs all the time
is that you have to be self-aware enough
to recognize
are you the right person for this job
um and as you pointed out it syncs so
many companies
when a company is successful
but that just means that the problems
change the management stresses change
the requirements change
and it's extremely rare that the person
who had the skill set
to start something to grow something is
the same person who takes it the rest of
the way i mean you can really count
those people on the fingers of probably
two hands
and i'm delighted to say
i'm not one of them
yeah it's uh that story
um there's another piece to it which is
even makes it even more powerful which
is that reid said hey if this doesn't
sit right with you then we'll just sell
we've been successful enough we can get
our money back the um
you know we'll make our investors whole
and so it really wasn't
a decision that had to be made that way
you made that decision after
setting the ego aside and the really
interesting
uh way that you teased out that there
are two dreams here you know one is me
running a big company and the other is
me building a big company and it man
just i've been in enough situations seen
enough entrepreneurs enough companies
enough teams to know that that moment is
extraordinarily rare that most people
cannot do that
and that that ends in a super ugly way
you talk very
warmly of reed
in the book and i don't know man it was
just that that to me like there's so
many pieces of your story and what you
talk about that are really breathtaking
in their usability in that like you talk
about um in the book and in podcasts and
just now that there are phases that a
company goes through and so one moment a
person might be right and one of the
most brutally difficult things as an
entrepreneur is you have worked your ass
off to hire somebody to convince them to
leave you know their comfortable
high-paying job to come with you and
then you get to a point where they don't
make sense in the company anymore not
that they're a bad person not that
they're not talented it's just that the
companies change so much that they don't
make sense anymore
that's already hard but to then have to
reflect on yourself and say actually i
need to retool my own position it's
pretty extraordinary
it's funny i mean it's the methodology i
use to coach people that way because you
start
with coaching someone being able to
recognize that this person who did join
them early on who gave everything who's
a good friend now
is not the right person
for what the company needs
and it takes a while to get a founder
comfortable with that
and then the next step is to say and you
need to
every so often apply that exact same
filter to yourself
and if you fundamentally believe the
most important thing you can do to
create this legacy of something you've
built
is recognize that you may not be the
person who takes it all the way and that
people remember
um the company way longer than you'll
remember your role in it
yeah that's super interesting what's
been important to you in this whole
journey that you have i would say a
pretty atypical look on what really
matters in life is probably the right
way to say it
yes it is funny i mean i you know i
wrote that will never work like 16 years
after i left netflix
and so i've had this benefit of kind of
looking back with what i think is pretty
good honesty about what really was my
role here and what were the pieces that
go into it but
probably i think what you're alluding to
is the fact that i was lucky enough to
learn early on that business was not
everything for me
that i had other things that were
important and that the challenge
was not can i build an amazing business
the challenge was can i build an amazing
business
and stay married to my best friend and
have my kids know me and like me and be
able to pursue the activities which i
know make me whole you know which for me
is things like climbing and you know
back country skiing and those sort of
things
um and that has really been the
challenge of my life is
how do i build a life which does can do
all three of those things
um and looking back that's probably the
thing that i'm most proud of actually
it's not netflix it's not the other six
companies it's doing that while i've
been able to have this what i would
consider a balanced life and you know
like any of these things it's not not an
easy thing it's just something that
if you
forgot who said this but maybe even
someone like tony robbins but you know
if you don't have a clear something
clearly in mind what you're trying to
achieve
the odds you're going to achieve that
are pretty low
um and you know probably when i was in
my late 20s early 30s i really said to
myself i need to be able to have all
three of these things take place
you know and the classic one the one i
talk about in the book
was
realizing this is even before netflix
that it was just not
fair
to expect my my girlfriend at the time
but to you know
be there even though i was gone all the
time
and if i was going to maintain the
relationship i had to make make it clear
it was a priority to me but at the same
time i was building businesses and the
way that i worked this out is we had
this date night
and it was every tuesday at five o'clock
period i would leave she'd get a sitter
we would go out and we'd spend time just
the two of us
um and at first that's really hard
because there's you know
startups don't stop at five o'clock
but you know i i was i was stubborn you
know i said listen if there is a crisis
well we're going to solve it by five and
if you absolutely have to talk to me
we're going to talk in the way of the
car
but the the the cool thing
is that after a few months of
being an absolute
hard ass about this
it stopped happening
which is people realized mark's serious
about this and they stopped asking and
then an even better thing happened which
is they began taking time to spend with
their family
and it goes to the show that culture you
know isn't what you say it's what you do
and that i could have said until i was
blue in the face oh it's important to
have balance but by modeling that
behavior you're demonstrating you really
do believe that's important
like you my marriage is my number one
priority it's far more important to me
than business but can you articulate why
why did you care so much about
protecting that relationship because
it's not the norm
yeah i don't know what
i mean i have a my catchy way of saying
is i really i decided i did not want to
be on my sixth startup and my sixth wife
i wanted you know i wanted this is my
best friend i wanted to spend time with
them
i didn't want to have this be you know
the side gig or something like that and
by making it the priority
you work everything else around it and
one of the big revelations for me is
that you can do that
i'll tell another dumb story if i have a
second here absolutely um so i i worked
in europe
for about a year and a half uh running
marketing for an international company
and i had meetings
four times a week in other countries you
know so i'd fly to munich one day the
next day i'd be flying to milan then i'd
be flying to the uk
from paris and so i was flying all the
time and you know paris traffic is
nightmare so i'd be late more times than
not and i'd be huffing it through the
airport
and i learned something really important
about running for planes
which is that about 50 of the time you
run for the plane
and you make it anyway you're sitting on
the plane sweating through your coat
the 49 of the time
you don't make it you come rushing up
and the door has been shut and you can
see the plane
taxiing away
one percent of the time running for the
plane made the difference between making
it not making it if that
and i realized that that kind of applies
to business too
like i decided then and there i'm never
going to run for a plane
and all these meetings that you have to
be in
all those calls you have to return all
decisions which you know
i could make it better than that person
i should review their work
maybe
you know maybe you could do better than
they could but is that going to make the
difference
no
so
chill
don't don't be so self-important you
have to be in every single meeting take
time with your family or in my case you
know my passion as i mentioned before is
outdoor stuff
and
unfortunately most of the things that
thrill me are not stuff that i can
squeeze in between my 11 o'clock call
and my 2 o'clock meeting
i need to block out enough time to go
fly up to alaska and do some crazy ass
thing
and that's only going to happen if i
make it a priority and only going to
happen if i block out the time and
construct a life that lets that happen
what is it about the great outdoors
flying out to alaska carving out the
time climbing mountains sleeping outside
what does that do for you give to you
how does it shape your mind like what's
its importance oh wow that's i spent a
lot of time thinking about that and i
uh i then so this is going to be
dissecting the joke which is you know
you can do it after the fact and i have
no idea if it's really real but i do for
me
um
most of those activities are in the
moment
i mean you're not thinking about the
past you're not thinking about the
future
you are
in it right in that instant
and it's a slow state
yes yes exactly it's a form of
meditation in a way
um and
there's something that does to how your
brain is wired to do that
so that probably for me is the common
denominator about all these things i do
the second thing is that there's an
adrenaline aspect to it
um
our lives have become fairly
comfortable
and there is nothing like
fearing for your life
but in a good way
in a good way i mean doing a very very
hard rock climb
where you are using your full strength
and concentration to keep from falling
that is such a focusing moment that when
you come through it
there is this incredible rush
of i don't know what to call it
but
it's a fun feeling
and the third thing is there's a
remarkable aesthetic to being outside
there's a tranquility there's a beauty
um
but when you combine all three of those
things i'm drawn to it
um i every minute that i can
i try and put myself in a position where
i can be doing something like that
mark you have lived a an extraordinary
life you've taken a very unconventional
and
dare i say healthy approach to it all
that brings me to randolph's rules for
success which are not what even you
expected when your father gave them to
you um how would you categorize them
see my father was a banker
um and on the
uh
evening before i was to start my first
job he called me into the family room
and
handed me a little handwritten
notepad in which he'd written the
randolph rules of success that i was to
get from him
on the day before my first job
and you know he was a banker and so
these rules could have been you know buy
low sell high or happiness is positive
cash flow or you know some some kind of
business rules
but when you read them
these were simple rules this was like
you know
stick to constructive criticism you know
or don't knock don't complain
uh be prompt
you know quantify when necessary i mean
these were instructions to be a a decent
person
and
what that said about him was so
interesting was that he believed the
rules to success were
being a decent person
um and you're right though
it led to something
um
which was probably the biggest
revelation of my life that
you don't need to be a dick
that you don't need to be a hard ass you
don't need to sacrifice your marriage
you don't need to submerge your hobbies
that you can be a good person and have a
decent life and still
create some great things
now have you passed on the exact eight
rules to your kids or have you added
some things to the mix
i have absolutely passed it on the
original i have framed in my bathroom
where i can see it every
morning and every evening when i brush
my teeth but i also did copies up for
all of my kids and they which is so
touching they love them i mean they take
them to heart they you know for me it
goes oh my dad
but they're going these are really
really cool and i think you know they're
in there are in the book and it's funny
they have touched um
a lot of people but
which is surprising surprising to me now
they're really good rules the one that i
couldn't parse on my own was don't knock
don't complain i get that don't complain
what did don't knock me it means just
you know don't it's just don't knock
people don't just don't don't put people
down
you know it's it's just a synonym for
complaining
and
that's not helpful
i've got plenty plenty of people it's
easy easy to find the problems
now as you were raising your kids what
were like core principles you wanted to
instill in them
wow
um
joy really
you know i uh you try to expose them to
a lot of things because you're hoping
they're gonna find their their passion
um risk taking certainly
one of the most interesting lessons that
i've taught my kids is the power
of not taking no for an answer
and not in a rude way but just the power
of persistence
and it's so remarkable watching
what my kids have done with that and how
it's this magic power
which once you learn how to do it it
just opens doors i mean i'll give you
one completely ridiculous example not to
get too personal in my kids lives about
it but my daughter is an extremely
accomplished mountaineer
you know even when she was 17 years old
i think you know she had extensive
climate experience sense of leadership
experience extensive wilderness first
aid experience but when she went to
apply for jobs as
leaders at some of these outdoor
leadership places too young
go minimum age 21
and she's going um oh this stinks i'm
gonna have to work at summer camps
and i go no what what's what can hurt
like what are they gonna say no
um apply
and it's amazing every single place said
we're going to overlook the 21 too and
when i want to talk to you
and i it's like magic i i could go on
forever with these another great one
um
my kids we went to kind of these these
little elite liberal arts schools where
it's very hard to get classes
um and so
what one of my kids what they nameless
would do
they just go
uh to a sold-out class and
and just sit there and at the end and
the the teacher would see everyone
sitting there who wasn't in the class
say just want you to know this class is
full i am not taking anybody off the
wait list we're done and
95 of the people in the back would get
up and leave
and my kid would sit there
and the next day they go i see some of
you were still coming back but i got to
say this is a closed class we're not
taking anyone in and they'd sit there
and they'd do it for a week and the
teacher would let them in
every time
i love that that that is a very good
lesson in a sea
of good lessons mark you're
the fact that you are doing a podcast
now i cannot tell you how excited i am
about it i've listened to the episodes
that are out already i will just tell
anybody out there whether you want to be
an entrepreneur or just want to get
better at thinking through things at
developing self-awareness whatever
it is amazing it's called that will
never work of course um where else can
people connect with you
so certainly uh the podcast is available
any place you get your podcasts i am
talking to normal people this is not
miracle solutions or secret techniques
it's basic common sense about how to
take your idea and make it real but the
other place is to find me at mark
randolph.com that's where you'll find
all things randolph
or i'm on twitter instagram etc etc but
you can find that at the website
i love it dude thank you so much for
joining me today reading the book
listening to the podcast all of it
researching you has been a real joy man
you've got a very specific take on how
to do things
um and it's it's incredible so thank you
for sharing it with me and everybody
else
and thank you so much for letting me
speak with you and kind of
tell people
you're not that special anyone can do
this
i love that all right guys if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care elegant or non-obvious
solution to a long-standing problem i'm
like oh
okay i can't wait to see how people are
going to respond
when i
provide that to a thousand people and i
see
for most of them the vast majority just
go holy [__]